---
layout: "../../layouts/PostLayout.astro"
title: "With humans I stand"
pubDate: 2025-06-09
author: "Álvaro Palma"
image:
  url: "with-humans-i-stand"
  alt: "Old building. Dithered black and white image."
tags: ["blogging", "about"]
description: "Internet is broken. So are we. Earth is burning, we are drowning in consumerism. AI is becoming the new way, and value is only synonym of fast. We want everything and we want it now. Stop the machinery, I need to get out."
---

It hasn't been long since I started my career in web development. Four years tops.

What immediately caught my attention about development was the open source. It was thanks to open source that I learned everything I know about development. It was thanks to open source that I left behind a life of customer-shit-eating, endless, soul-consuming jobs. It is thanks to open source that I can now live comfortably and write these lines from the home office of a beautiful apartment I own.

See, I used to be a translator. Probably, one of the professions first affected by *proto*-AI. I *used* to love being a translator. I always dreamt of translating great authors, novelists, poets and playwrights. That is, until I discovered that this kind of translation is extremely hard to get into and poorly paid. What really made me survive was a combination of customer service jobs and legal translation at 0.045 cents per word (if you know nothing about translation market, that is shit). And I could still consider myself fortunate because at least I wasn't reviewing puke generated by machine translation or AI.

And I didn't love it.

I had to take part of a market I didn't like. With poorly paid people (me included), a huge precariousness and the demolishing feeling of knowing that not everything would be literature and beautiful things. On the contrary, most of the time would be the *ugly*. The *bad*. Mostly boring stuff that just get the bills paid but that at what price.

*Sounds familiar?*

## Web development

Nowadays, the translation market is even worse than when I left it. While there are still few people earning their life well with translation, day after day, we see people giving up. People with half their lives invested in this profession have to give up because the capitalism is suffocating them. Things are getting worse and worse, but there's still **hope**.

Among these beautiful human beings, we see people creating community. We see people creating a healthy professional and emotional support network where they help each other. Where they pride themselves to be humans. They pledge to honor the fair professional praxis and don't accept to be treated like shit － even if that means saying *no* to a much-needed gig.

They live through this hell with **dignity**.

We can learn from this.

In the era of AI, we must stand for the human. We must value the human work and take the artisanal approach when possible. We must stand with the planet － if we want future generations to have a planet.

We must try to say **no** to the haste, to half-baked software and to shipping something that will probably only work well with high-tech equipment, making people want to switch to more powerful hardware only because the apps we write aren't efficient enough.

And, personally, should I have any professional purpose, shall be this: I have a vision of how the web could be. I believe HTML, CSS and JavaScript are more than suited for building efficient and scalable applications, and that mastering those will help you to gain independence and to empower you as a developer.

While I'm still learning, and I might get things wrong, I'll try to share here ideas and thoughts about the web platform － to hopefully spark some ideas, to collect feedback, create a community to learn from and to contribute to.

Let us create something beautiful. Let us be a small resistance against the colossus of capitalism and AI. Let us just enjoy code without any materialistic reason.

The internet is broken, but we can still fix it.